Two sheets for one function: the square-root surface.
We build the Riemann surface of w^2 = z.
The floor is the complex z-plane.
Above each z, two w-values form two layers.
They glue along a branch cut on the negative real axis.
Think of two sheets sewn together along that line.
Trace a loop around zero down on the plane.
Lift it: the point rises and twists with angle halved.
After one full turn, the lift ends on the other sheet.
This is monodromy: going once swaps branches.
Go around a second time to return to the start.
The origin is a branch point; the cut makes a single chart.
On the surface, sqrt is single-valued and smooth.
One function, two sheets, one seam—now glued into a whole.